Helm installation method for Palette (#1220)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/12-enterprise-version/03-deploying-palette-with-helm.md

import PointsOfInterest from 'shared/components/common/PointOfInterest';
import Tooltip from "shared/components/ui/Tooltip";

# Helm Chart Mode

You can use the Palette Helm Chart to install Palette in a multi-node Kubernetes cluster that is highly available and suitable for production environments. The installation involves setting up a Kubernetes cluster and using the Helm Chart to install Palette.

This installation pattern is common in secure environments with restricted network access that prohibits the usage of the Palette SaaS environment. Review our [architecture diagrams](/architecture/networking-ports) to ensure your Kubernetes cluster has the necessary network connectivity for Palette to operate successfully. 

# Prerequisites

- Configure a Container Storage Interface (CSI) for persistent data.

- Have at least three worker nodes or three untainted control plane nodes.

- Allocate a minimum of 4 CPUs and 12 GB Memory per node.

- A custom domain and the ability to updated Domain Name System (DNS) records.

- Access to the Palette Helm Chart. Contact suppport@spectrocloud.com to gain access to the Helm Chart.

<br />

<WarningBox>

> Palette cannot manage the cluster its installed onto due to component conflicts. Consider using a managed Kubernetes service to minimize management overhead. The Palette Helm Chart not tied to any particular managed Kubernetes service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Palette cannot manage the cluster its installed onto due to component conflicts. Consider using a managed Kubernetes service to minimize management overhead. The Palette Helm Chart is not tied to any particular managed Kubernetes service.
```

---

> title: "Enterprise Mode"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Helm Chart Mode"
```

---

> title: "Helm Chart Mode"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Install Palette with Helm Chart"
```

metaTitle: "Installing Palette with Helm"

> metaDescription: "Using an existing Kubernetes cluster to deploy Palette SaaS"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
metaDescription: "Learn how to deploy Palette SaaS in a Kubernetes cluster using a Helm Chart."
```

icon: ""
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import PointsOfInterest from 'shared/components/common/PointOfInterest';
import Tooltip from "shared/components/ui/Tooltip";
import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';

# Helm Chart Mode

> You can use the Palette Helm Chart to install Palette in a multi-node Kubernetes cluster that is highly available and suitable for production environments. The installation involves setting up a Kubernetes cluster and using the Helm Chart to install Palette.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the Palette Helm Chart to install Palette in a multi-node Kubernetes cluster in your production environment.
```

> This installation pattern is common in secure environments with restricted network access that prohibits the usage of the Palette SaaS environment. Review our [architecture diagrams](/architecture/networking-ports) to ensure your Kubernetes cluster has the necessary network connectivity for Palette to operate successfully. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This installation method is common in secure environments with restricted network access that prohibits using Palette SaaS. Review our [architecture diagrams](/architecture/networking-ports) to ensure your Kubernetes cluster has the necessary network connectivity for Palette to operate successfully. 
```

# Prerequisites

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl) is installed.

- Configure a Container Storage Interface (CSI) for persistent data.

- Have at least three worker nodes or three untainted control plane nodes.

- Allocate a minimum of 4 CPUs and 12 GB Memory per node.

- A custom domain and the ability to update Domain Name System (DNS) records.

- Access to the Palette Helm Chart. Contact suppport@spectrocloud.com to gain access to the Helm Chart.

- For AWS EKS, ensure you have the [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) and the [kubectl CLI](https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl#installation) installed. 

<br />

<WarningBox>

> Palette cannot manage the cluster it's installed onto due to component conflicts. Consider using a managed Kubernetes service to minimize management overhead. The Palette Helm Chart is not tied to any particular managed Kubernetes service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Palette cannot manage the cluster that it is installed onto due to component conflicts. Consider using a managed Kubernetes service to minimize management overhead. The Palette Helm Chart is not tied to any particular managed Kubernetes service.
```

</WarningBox>

# Install Palette

> Choose the installation steps for your target environment. The steps in the generic tab apply to all Kubernetes clusters, whereas the other tabs have instructions explicitly tailored to the target environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Choose the installation steps for your target environment. The steps in the generic tab apply to all Kubernetes clusters. Steps in other tabs have instructions explicitly tailored to the target environment.
```

<br />

<Tabs>

<Tabs.TabPane tab="Generic Kubernetes" key="generic-k8s">

1. Download the kubeconfig file for the Kubernetes cluster where you will deploy Palette. Ensure you can interact with the target cluster. You can validate by issuing a `kubectl` command.

    <br />

    ```shell
    kubectl get pods -A
    ```

2.  Extract the **values.yaml** from the Helm Chart with the following command: 

    <br />

    ```shell
    tar xzvf /path/to/chart.tgz spectro-mgmt-plane/values.yaml
    ``` 

> 3. Review the **values.yaml** .You must populate the parameter `env.rootDomain` to the custom domain you will use for the installation. All other parameter values are optional and can be reset or changed with a Helm upgrade operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Review the **values.yaml** . You must populate the `env.rootDomain` parameter to the domain you will use for the installation. All other parameter values are optional, and you can reset or change them with a Helm upgrade operation.
```

    <br />

    ```shell
    kubectl get service ingress-nginx-controller --namespace nginx --output jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].hostname}'
    ```

You now have a self-hosted instance of Palette installed in a Kubernetes cluster.

  <br />

  <InfoBox>

  To upgrade Palette with a new Helm release, or to modify the values used in the installation, use the following command. 

  <br />

  ```shell
  helm upgrade palette /path/to/chart.tgz --file /path/to/values.yaml
  ```

  </InfoBox>

</Tabs.TabPane> 

<Tabs.TabPane tab="AWS EKS" key="aws-eks">

1. Ensure the AWS CLI is configured with your credentials. You can use the following command to configure your credentials. Refer to the [Configuring the AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html) guide for additional help.

    <br />

    ```shell
    aws configure
    ```

2. Next, create an EKS cluster.

    <br />

    ```shell
    eksctl create cluster \
     --name palette-selfhost \
     --node-type m5.xlarge \
     --nodes 3 \
     --nodes-min 3 \
     --nodes-max 4 \
     --region eu-west-2 \
     --kubeconfig ~/Downloads/palette-selfhost.kubeconfig
    ```

>     Change `--region` and `--nodes` as required. You can also change the instance size, but keep in mind the required minimum of three nodes [with an instance](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/) with at least 4 CPUs and 12 GB of Memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Change `--region` and `--nodes` as required. You can also change the instance size. 
    
    Note that the [minimum instance requirement](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/) is three nodes with a least  4 CPUs and 12 GB of Memory per node. 
```

> 3. Once the cluster is available, go ahead and configure the OpenID Connect (OIDC) for the cluster to use Palette as the Identity Provider (IDP).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. When the cluster is available, go ahead and configure the OpenID Connect (OIDC) for the cluster to use Palette as the Identity Provider (IDP).
```

    <br />

    ```shell
    eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider --cluster=palette-selfhost --approve
    ```

4. Next, add the EBS Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver IAM role. Replace the `<AWS_ACCOUNT_ID>` with your AWS account ID.

    <br />

    ```shell
    eksctl create addon --name aws-ebs-csi-driver \ 
     --cluster palette-selfhost \ 
     --service-account-role-arn arn:aws:iam::<AWS_ACCOUNT_ID>:role/AmazonEKS_EBS_CSI_DriverRole \
     --force
    ```

5. Log in to the [AWS console](console.aws.amazon.com) and navigate to the EKS Dashboard.

> 6. Select the cluster **palette-selfhost** to access its details page. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Select the **palette-selfhost** cluster to access its details page. 
```

7. From the cluster details page, click on **Compute** > **Node Group**. Next, click on **Node IAM role ARN link**. 

    ![A view of the cluster details page with the Node IAM role ARN highlighted](/enterprise-version_deploying-palette-with-helm_aws-iam-role.png)

8. From the **Permissions** tab, click on the **Add Permissions** button, and select **Attach Policies**.

> 9. Search for the policy **AmazonEBSCSIDriverPolicy** and add it to the role. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. Search for the **AmazonEBSCSIDriverPolicy** policy and add it to the role. 
```

    <br />

    <InfoBox>

    You can find additional guidance about Amazon EBS CSI drivers and requirements by reviewing the [EBS User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/ebs-csi.html) and the [Manage EBS with EKS](https://github.com/awsdocs/amazon-eks-user-guide/blob/master/doc_source/managing-ebs-csi.md) guide.

    </InfoBox>

> 10. Extract the Helm Chart files from the compressed asset you received from us. Replace the file path as needed, and the version place holder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10. Extract the Helm Chart files from the compressed asset we provided to you. Replace the file path and version place holder as needed.
```

    <br />

    ```shell
    tar xzvf path/to-file/spectro-mgmt-helm-charts-X.X.tar.gz 
    ```

11. Navigate to the **spectro-mgmt-helm-charts-X.X** folder.

    <br />

    ```shell
    cd spectro-mgmt-helm-charts-X.X
    ```

> 12. Review the **values.yaml** .You must populate the parameter `env.rootDomain` to the custom domain you will use for the installation. In addition, add the same `rootDomain` with port `:4222` to the `natsUrl` in the `nats` section of the YAML. Example: `env.rootDomain: my-domain.com:4222`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
12. Review the **values.yaml** . You must populate the `env.rootDomain` parameter to the domain you will use for the installation. In addition, add the same `rootDomain` with port `:4222` to the `natsUrl` in the `nats` section of the YAML. Example: `env.rootDomain: my-domain.com:4222`.
```

>     All other parameter values are optional and can be reset or changed with a Helm upgrade operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    All other parameter values are optional, and you can reset or change them with a Helm upgrade operation.
```

    <br />
    

>  13. If you wish to use [AWS ACM for SSL Certs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/acm/latest/userguide/acm-overview.html), instead of the default self-signed certificate generated by the Nginx *ingress controller*, you can add it to the `annotations` under `ingress`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 13. If you wish to use [AWS ACM for SSL Certs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/acm/latest/userguide/acm-overview.html), instead of the default self-signed certificate that the Nginx *ingress controller* generates, you can add it to the `annotations` under `ingress`.
```

        annotations:
        # AWS example
        service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-internal: "true"
        service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-backend-protocol: tcp
        service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-ssl-cert: "<ARN:ACM>"
        service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-ssl-ports: "https"
        ingressStaticIP: ""
    ```
 
 14. Download the kubeconfig file for the EKS cluster. Ensure you can interact with the target cluster. You can validate by issuing a `kubectl` command. For additional guidance, refer to the [kubeconfig file for an Amazon EKS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-kubeconfig.html) guide.

15. Install the Helm Chart using the following command. Replace the path in the command to match your local path of the Palette Helm Chart.

  <br />

  ```shell
  helm install palette /path/to/chart.tgz --file /path/to/values.yaml
  ```

16. Monitor the deployment using the command below. Palette is ready when the deployments in namespaces `cp-system`, `hubble-system`, `jet-system` , and `ui-system` reach the *Ready* state.

    <br />

    ```shell
    kubectl get pods --all-namespaces --watch
    ```

> 17. Create a DNS record that is mapped to the Palette `ingress-nginx-controller` load balancer. You can use the following command to retrieve the load balancer IP address.

Reviewer 2: Should the doc refer to ingress-nginx-controller as a load balancer? Isn't it ingress-nginx-controller OR load balancer? (could be my misunderstanding)

    <br />

    ```shell
    kubectl get service ingress-nginx-controller --namespace nginx --output jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].hostname}'
    ```

You now have a self-hosted instance of Palette installed in a Kubernetes cluster.

<br />

<InfoBox>

To upgrade Palette with a new Helm release, or to modify the values used in the installation, use the following command. 

  <br />

  ```shell
  helm upgrade palette /path/to/chart.tgz --file /path/to/values.yaml
  ```

</InfoBox>

</Tabs.TabPane> 

</Tabs>

# Validation

> You can validate that the installation of Palette is successful by visiting the custom domain you assigned to the parameter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can validate that the installation of Palette is successful by visiting the custom domain you assigned to the 
```

> `env.rootDomain` in the **values.yaml**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`env.rootDomain` parameter in the **values.yaml**.
```

<br />

<WarningBox>

If you notice that the pods in the `hubble-system` namespace are not initializing as expected, it might be due to a delay in adding the DNS records for the rootDomain. The workaround is to terminate all pods except the pods related to `mongo-db` in the `hubble-system` namespace to trigger a redeployment of the pods.

  <br />

  ```shell
  kubectl delete pods --namespace hubble-system --selector=role!=mongo
  ```

</WarningBox>

# Next Steps

> Start exploring the Palette system dashboard so that you become familiar with the available actions you can make as an administrator. Check out the [System Console Dashboard](/enterprise-version/system-console-dashboard) resource to learn more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start exploring the Palette system dashboard so that you become familiar with the available actions you can take as an administrator. Check out the [System Console Dashboard](/enterprise-version/system-console-dashboard) resource to learn more.
```

    aws configure
    ```

2. Next, create an EKS cluster.

    <br />

    ```shell
    eksctl create cluster \
     --name palette-selfhost \
     --node-type m5.xlarge \
     --nodes 3 \
     --nodes-min 3 \
     --nodes-max 4 \
     --region eu-west-2 \
     --kubeconfig ~/Downloads/palette-selfhost.kubeconfig
    ```

    Change `--region` and `--nodes` as required. You can also change the instance size, but keep in mind the required minimum of three nodes [with an instance](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/) with at least 4 CPUs and 12 GB of Memory.

3. Once the cluster is available, go ahead and configure the OpenID Connect (OIDC) for the cluster to use Palette as the Identity Provider (IDP).

    <br />

    ```shell
    eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider --cluster=palette-selfhost --approve
    ```

4. Next, add the EBS Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver IAM role. Replace the `<AWS_ACCOUNT_ID>` with your AWS account ID.

    <br />

    ```shell
    eksctl create addon --name aws-ebs-csi-driver \ 
     --cluster palette-selfhost \ 
     --service-account-role-arn arn:aws:iam::<AWS_ACCOUNT_ID>:role/AmazonEKS_EBS_CSI_DriverRole \
     --force
    ```

> 5. Log in to the [AWS console](console.aws.amazon.com) and navigate to the EKS Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Log in to the [AWS console](https://console.aws.amazon.com) and navigate to the EKS Dashboard.
```

    <br />

    ```yaml
    ingress:
      ingress:
        # Whether to front NGINX Ingress Controller with a cloud
        # load balancer (internal == false) or use host network
        internal: false

        # Default SSL certificate and key for NGINX Ingress Controller (Optional)
        # A wildcard cert for config.env.rootDomain, e.g., *.myfirstpalette.spectrocloud.com
        # If left blank, the NGINX ingress controller will generate a self-signed cert (when terminating TLS upstream of ingress-nginx-controller)
        # certificate: ""
        # key: ""

        annotations:
        # AWS example
        service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-internal: "true"
        service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-backend-protocol: tcp
        service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-ssl-cert: "<ARN:ACM>"
        service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-ssl-ports: "https"
        ingressStaticIP: ""

>         # Used to terminate HTTPS at the load balancer versus passing through the load balancer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Used to terminate HTTPS traffic at the load balancer versus passing through the load balancer. This parameter is available in Palette 3.3 or greater.
```

import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import PointsOfInterest from 'shared/components/common/PointOfInterest';
import Tooltip from "shared/components/ui/Tooltip";

# Helm Chart Mode

The Palette Helm Chart Mode is a multi-node, highly available installation of the Palette platform suitable for production purposes. Installation involves instantiating a Kubernetes cluster, and using Helm to install the Palette chart.

# Requirements

Palette SaaS in Helm Chart mode does not have specific requirements on Kubernetes, beyond requiring a currently supported version of Kubernetes. This cluster can *not* be managed by Palette because some of the components are shared and will conflict. We recommend using a managed Kubernetes offering to reduce the management overhead for the cluster. The Palette Helm Chart does not depend on any specific managed Kubernetes offering. 

For a production cluster, we recommend configuring and sizing the cluster to these specifications:
 * The cluster must have a container storage interface configured for persistent data. 
 * The cluster should have at least 3 worker nodes, or 3 control plane nodes without taints

>  * The cluster should have at least 4 vCPUs and 12GB RAM per node

Author: yes
